website/content/en/docs/config/environment-variables.md, before:

---
title: Environment Variables
weight: 80
---

## Environment Variables

This page documents the environment variables used in Lima.

### `LIMA_INSTANCE`

- **Description**: Specifies the name of the Lima instance to use.
- **Default**: `default`
- **Usage**: 
  ```sh
  export LIMA_INSTANCE=my-instance
  lima uname -a
  ```

### `LIMA_SHELL`

- **Description**: Specifies the shell interpreter to use inside the Lima instance.
- **Default**: User's shell configured inside the instance
- **Usage**: 
  ```sh
  export LIMA_SHELL=/bin/bash
  lima
  ```

### `LIMA_WORKDIR`

- **Description**: Specifies the initial working directory inside the Lima instance.
- **Default**: Current directory from the host
- **Usage**: 
  ```sh
  export LIMA_WORKDIR=/home/user/project
  lima
  ```

### `LIMACTL`

- **Description**: Specifies the path to the `limactl` binary.
- **Default**: `limactl` in `$PATH`
- **Usage**: 
  ```sh
  export LIMACTL=/usr/local/bin/limactl
  lima
  ```

### `LIMA_SSH_PORT_FORWARDER`

- **Description**: Specifies to use the SSH port forwarder (slow, stable) instead of gRPC (fast, unstable)
- **Default**: `true`
- **Usage**: 
  ```sh
  export LIMA_SSH_PORT_FORWARDER=false
  ```
- **Note**: It is expected that this variable will be set to `false` by default in future
  when the gRPC port forwarder is well matured.

### `LIMA_USERNET_RESOLVE_IP_ADDRESS_TIMEOUT`

- **Description**: Specifies the timeout duration for resolving the IP address in usernet.
- **Default**: 2 minutes
- **Usage**: 
  ```sh
  export LIMA_USERNET_RESOLVE_IP_ADDRESS_TIMEOUT=5
  ```

### `LIMA_QEMU_UEFI_IN_BIOS`

- **Description**: Commands QEMU to load x86_64 UEFI images using `-bios` instead of `pflash` drives.
- **Default**: `false` on Unix like hosts and `true` on Windows hosts
- **Usage**: 
  ```sh
  export LIMA_QEMU_UEFI_IN_BIOS=true
  ```
- **Note**: It is expected that this variable will be set to `false` by default in future
  when QEMU supports `pflash` UEFI for accelerated guests on Windows.

Commit message:

Support setting extra entries for PATH env variable on Windows hosts
During startup `limactl.exe` will check new experimental
`_LIMA_WINDOWS_EXTRA_PATH` environment variable and when found it
will be added to PATH environment variable for the running process.

Signed-off-by: Arthur Sengileyev <arthur.sengileyev@gmail.com>

website/content/en/docs/config/environment-variables.md, after:

---
title: Environment Variables
weight: 80
---

## Environment Variables

This page documents the environment variables used in Lima.

### `LIMA_INSTANCE`

- **Description**: Specifies the name of the Lima instance to use.
- **Default**: `default`
- **Usage**: 
  ```sh
  export LIMA_INSTANCE=my-instance
  lima uname -a
  ```

### `LIMA_SHELL`

- **Description**: Specifies the shell interpreter to use inside the Lima instance.
- **Default**: User's shell configured inside the instance
- **Usage**: 
  ```sh
  export LIMA_SHELL=/bin/bash
  lima
  ```

### `LIMA_WORKDIR`

- **Description**: Specifies the initial working directory inside the Lima instance.
- **Default**: Current directory from the host
- **Usage**: 
  ```sh
  export LIMA_WORKDIR=/home/user/project
  lima
  ```

### `LIMACTL`

- **Description**: Specifies the path to the `limactl` binary.
- **Default**: `limactl` in `$PATH`
- **Usage**: 
  ```sh
  export LIMACTL=/usr/local/bin/limactl
  lima
  ```

### `LIMA_SSH_PORT_FORWARDER`

- **Description**: Specifies to use the SSH port forwarder (slow, stable) instead of gRPC (fast, unstable)
- **Default**: `true`
- **Usage**: 
  ```sh
  export LIMA_SSH_PORT_FORWARDER=false
  ```
- **Note**: It is expected that this variable will be set to `false` by default in future
  when the gRPC port forwarder is well matured.

### `LIMA_USERNET_RESOLVE_IP_ADDRESS_TIMEOUT`

- **Description**: Specifies the timeout duration for resolving the IP address in usernet.
- **Default**: 2 minutes
- **Usage**: 
  ```sh
  export LIMA_USERNET_RESOLVE_IP_ADDRESS_TIMEOUT=5
  ```

### `_LIMA_QEMU_UEFI_IN_BIOS`

- **Description**: Commands QEMU to load x86_64 UEFI images using `-bios` instead of `pflash` drives.
- **Default**: `false` on Unix like hosts and `true` on Windows hosts
- **Usage**: 
  ```sh
  export _LIMA_QEMU_UEFI_IN_BIOS=true
  ```
- **Note**: It is expected that this variable will be set to `false` by default in future
  when QEMU supports `pflash` UEFI for accelerated guests on Windows.

### `_LIMA_WINDOWS_EXTRA_PATH`

- **Description**: Additional directories which will be added to PATH by `limactl.exe` process to search for tools.
  It is useful, when there is a need to prevent collisions between binaries available in active shell and ones
  used by `limactl.exe` - injecting them only for the running process w/o altering PATH observed by user shell.
  Is is Windows specific and does nothing for other platforms.
- **Default**: unset
- **Usage**:
  ```bat
  set _LIMA_WINDOWS_EXTRA_PATH=C:\Program Files\Git\usr\bin
  ```
- **Note**: It is an experimental setting and has no guarantees being ever promoted to stable. It may be removed
  or changed at any stage of project development.
