docs/internal.md, before:

# Internal data structure

## Lima home directory (`${LIMA_HOME}`)

Defaults to `~/.lima`.

Note that we intentionally avoid using `~/Library/Application Support/Lima` on macOS.

We use `~/.lima` so that we can have enough space for the length of the socket path,
which must be less than 104 characters on macOS.

### Config directory (`${LIMA_HOME}/_config`)

The config directory contains global lima settings that apply to all instances.

User identity:

Lima creates a default identity and uses its public key as the authorized key
to access all lima instances. In addition lima will also configure all public
keys from `~/.ssh/*.pub` as well, so the user can use the ssh endpoint without
having to specify an identity explicitly.
- `user`: private key
- `user.pub`: public key

### Instance directory (`${LIMA_HOME}/<INSTANCE>`)

An instance directory contains the following files:

Metadata:
- `lima.yaml`: the YAML

cloud-init:
- `cidata.iso`: cloud-init ISO9660 image. See [`cidata.iso`](#cidataiso).

disk:
- `basedisk`: the base image
- `diffdisk`: the diff image (QCOW2)

QEMU:
- `qemu.pid`: QEMU PID
- `qmp.sock`: QMP socket
- `serial.log`: QEMU serial log, for debugging
- `serial.sock`: QEMU serial socket, for debugging (Usage: `socat -,echo=0,icanon=0 unix-connect:serial.sock`)

SSH:
- `ssh.sock`: SSH control master socket

Guest agent:
- `ga.sock`: Forwarded to `/run/lima-guestagent.sock` in the guest, via SSH

Host agent:
- `ha.pid`: hostagent PID
- `ha.sock`: hostagent REST API
- `ha.stdout.log`: hostagent stdout (JSON lines, see `pkg/hostagent/events.Event`)
- `ha.stderr.log`: hostagent stderr (human-readable messages)

## Lima cache directory (`~/Library/Caches/lima`)

Currently hard-coded to `~/Library/Caches/lima` on macOS.

### Download cache (`~/Library/Caches/lima/download/by-url-sha256/<SHA256_OF_URL>`)

The directory contains the following files:

- `url`: raw url text, without "\n"
- `data`: data
- `<ALGO>.digest`: digest of the data, in OCI format.
   e.g., file name `sha256.digest`, with content `sha256:5ba3d476707d510fe3ca3928e9cda5d0b4ce527d42b343404c92d563f82ba967`

## Environment variables

- `$LIMA_HOME`: The "Lima home directory" (see above).
  - Default : `~/.lima`

- `$LIMA_INSTANCE`: `lima ...` is expanded to `limactl shell ${LIMA_INSTANCE} ...`.
  - Default : `default`

- `$QEMU_SYSTEM_X86_64`: path of `qemu-system-x86_64`
  - Default: `qemu-system-x86_64` in `$PATH`

- `$QEMU_SYSTEM_AARCH64`: path of `qemu-system-aarch64`
  - Default: `qemu-system-aarch64` in `$PATH`

## `cidata.iso`
`cidata.iso` contains the following files:

- `user-data`: [Cloud-init user-data](https://cloudinit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/topics/format.html)
- `meta-data`: [Cloud-init meta-data](https://cloudinit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/topics/instancedata.html)
- `network-config`: [Cloud-init Networking Config Version 2](https://cloudinit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/topics/network-config-format-v2.html)
- `lima.env`: The `LIMA_CIDATA_*` environment variables (see below) available during `boot.sh` processing
- `lima-guestagent`: Lima guest agent binary
- `nerdctl-full.tgz`: [`nerdctl-full-<VERSION>-linux-<ARCH>.tar.gz`](https://github.com/containerd/nerdctl/releases)
- `boot.sh`: Boot script
- `boot/*`: Boot script modules
- `util/*`: Utility command scripts, executed in the boot script modules
- `provision.system/*`: Custom provision scripts (system)
- `provision.user/*`: Custom provision scripts (user)
- `etc_environment`: Environment variables to be added to `/etc/environment` (also loaded during `boot.sh`)

Max file name length = 30

### Volume label
The volume label is "cidata", as defined by [cloud-init NoCloud](https://cloudinit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/topics/datasources/nocloud.html).

### Environment variables
- `LIMA_CIDATA_NAME`: the lima instance name
- `LIMA_CIDATA_MNT`: the mount point of the disk. `/mnt/lima-cidata`.
- `LIMA_CIDATA_USER`: the user name string
- `LIMA_CIDATA_UID`: the numeric UID
- `LIMA_CIDATA_MOUNTS`: the number of the Lima mounts
- `LIMA_CIDATA_MOUNTS_%d_MOUNTPOINT`: the N-th mount point of Lima mounts (N=0, 1, ...)
- `LIMA_CIDATA_CONTAINERD_USER`: set to "1" if rootless containerd to be set up
- `LIMA_CIDATA_CONTAINERD_SYSTEM`: set to "1" if system-wide containerd to be set up
- `LIMA_CIDATA_SLIRP_GATEWAY`: set to the IP address of the host on the SLIRP network. `192.168.5.2`.
- `LIMA_CIDATA_SLIRP_DNS`: set to the IP address of the DNS on the SLIRP network. `192.168.5.3`.
- `LIMA_CIDATA_SLIRP_IP_ADDRESS`: set to the IP address of the guest on the SLIRP network. `192.168.5.15`.
- `LIMA_CIDATA_UDP_DNS_LOCAL_PORT`: set to the udp port number of the hostagent dns server (or 0 when not enabled).
- `LIMA_CIDATA_TCP_DNS_LOCAL_PORT`: set to the tcp port number of the hostagent dns server (or 0 when not enabled).

# VM lifecycle

![](./images/lima-sequence-diagram.png)

(based on Lima 0.8.3)

Commit message:

Add virtfs/9p mounts, instead of sshocker/sshfs
This PR allows selecting mount type, as "9p"

The default mount type is still as before.

Signed-off-by: Anders F Björklund <anders.f.bjorklund@gmail.com>

docs/internal.md, after:

# Internal data structure

## Lima home directory (`${LIMA_HOME}`)

Defaults to `~/.lima`.

Note that we intentionally avoid using `~/Library/Application Support/Lima` on macOS.

We use `~/.lima` so that we can have enough space for the length of the socket path,
which must be less than 104 characters on macOS.

### Config directory (`${LIMA_HOME}/_config`)

The config directory contains global lima settings that apply to all instances.

User identity:

Lima creates a default identity and uses its public key as the authorized key
to access all lima instances. In addition lima will also configure all public
keys from `~/.ssh/*.pub` as well, so the user can use the ssh endpoint without
having to specify an identity explicitly.
- `user`: private key
- `user.pub`: public key

### Instance directory (`${LIMA_HOME}/<INSTANCE>`)

An instance directory contains the following files:

Metadata:
- `lima.yaml`: the YAML

cloud-init:
- `cidata.iso`: cloud-init ISO9660 image. See [`cidata.iso`](#cidataiso).

disk:
- `basedisk`: the base image
- `diffdisk`: the diff image (QCOW2)

QEMU:
- `qemu.pid`: QEMU PID
- `qmp.sock`: QMP socket
- `serial.log`: QEMU serial log, for debugging
- `serial.sock`: QEMU serial socket, for debugging (Usage: `socat -,echo=0,icanon=0 unix-connect:serial.sock`)

SSH:
- `ssh.sock`: SSH control master socket

Guest agent:
- `ga.sock`: Forwarded to `/run/lima-guestagent.sock` in the guest, via SSH

Host agent:
- `ha.pid`: hostagent PID
- `ha.sock`: hostagent REST API
- `ha.stdout.log`: hostagent stdout (JSON lines, see `pkg/hostagent/events.Event`)
- `ha.stderr.log`: hostagent stderr (human-readable messages)

## Lima cache directory (`~/Library/Caches/lima`)

Currently hard-coded to `~/Library/Caches/lima` on macOS.

### Download cache (`~/Library/Caches/lima/download/by-url-sha256/<SHA256_OF_URL>`)

The directory contains the following files:

- `url`: raw url text, without "\n"
- `data`: data
- `<ALGO>.digest`: digest of the data, in OCI format.
   e.g., file name `sha256.digest`, with content `sha256:5ba3d476707d510fe3ca3928e9cda5d0b4ce527d42b343404c92d563f82ba967`

## Environment variables

- `$LIMA_HOME`: The "Lima home directory" (see above).
  - Default : `~/.lima`

- `$LIMA_INSTANCE`: `lima ...` is expanded to `limactl shell ${LIMA_INSTANCE} ...`.
  - Default : `default`

- `$QEMU_SYSTEM_X86_64`: path of `qemu-system-x86_64`
  - Default: `qemu-system-x86_64` in `$PATH`

- `$QEMU_SYSTEM_AARCH64`: path of `qemu-system-aarch64`
  - Default: `qemu-system-aarch64` in `$PATH`

## `cidata.iso`
`cidata.iso` contains the following files:

- `user-data`: [Cloud-init user-data](https://cloudinit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/topics/format.html)
- `meta-data`: [Cloud-init meta-data](https://cloudinit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/topics/instancedata.html)
- `network-config`: [Cloud-init Networking Config Version 2](https://cloudinit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/topics/network-config-format-v2.html)
- `lima.env`: The `LIMA_CIDATA_*` environment variables (see below) available during `boot.sh` processing
- `lima-guestagent`: Lima guest agent binary
- `nerdctl-full.tgz`: [`nerdctl-full-<VERSION>-linux-<ARCH>.tar.gz`](https://github.com/containerd/nerdctl/releases)
- `boot.sh`: Boot script
- `boot/*`: Boot script modules
- `util/*`: Utility command scripts, executed in the boot script modules
- `provision.system/*`: Custom provision scripts (system)
- `provision.user/*`: Custom provision scripts (user)
- `etc_environment`: Environment variables to be added to `/etc/environment` (also loaded during `boot.sh`)

Max file name length = 30

### Volume label
The volume label is "cidata", as defined by [cloud-init NoCloud](https://cloudinit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/topics/datasources/nocloud.html).

### Environment variables
- `LIMA_CIDATA_NAME`: the lima instance name
- `LIMA_CIDATA_MNT`: the mount point of the disk. `/mnt/lima-cidata`.
- `LIMA_CIDATA_USER`: the user name string
- `LIMA_CIDATA_UID`: the numeric UID
- `LIMA_CIDATA_MOUNTS`: the number of the Lima mounts
- `LIMA_CIDATA_MOUNTS_%d_MOUNTPOINT`: the N-th mount point of Lima mounts (N=0, 1, ...)
- `LIMA_CIDATA_MOUNTTYPE`: the type of the Lima mounts ("reverse-sshfs", "9p", ...)
- `LIMA_CIDATA_CONTAINERD_USER`: set to "1" if rootless containerd to be set up
- `LIMA_CIDATA_CONTAINERD_SYSTEM`: set to "1" if system-wide containerd to be set up
- `LIMA_CIDATA_SLIRP_GATEWAY`: set to the IP address of the host on the SLIRP network. `192.168.5.2`.
- `LIMA_CIDATA_SLIRP_DNS`: set to the IP address of the DNS on the SLIRP network. `192.168.5.3`.
- `LIMA_CIDATA_SLIRP_IP_ADDRESS`: set to the IP address of the guest on the SLIRP network. `192.168.5.15`.
- `LIMA_CIDATA_UDP_DNS_LOCAL_PORT`: set to the udp port number of the hostagent dns server (or 0 when not enabled).
- `LIMA_CIDATA_TCP_DNS_LOCAL_PORT`: set to the tcp port number of the hostagent dns server (or 0 when not enabled).

# VM lifecycle

![](./images/lima-sequence-diagram.png)

(based on Lima 0.8.3)
