docs/vmtype.md, before:

# vmType

Lima supports two ways of running guest machines:
- [qemu](#qemu)
- [vz](#vz)

The vmType can be specified only on creating the instance.
The vmType of existing instances cannot be changed.

## QEMU
"qemu" option makes use of QEMU to run guest operating system. 
This option is used by default if "vmType" is not set.

## VZ
> **Warning**
> "vz" mode is experimental

| :zap: Requirement | Lima >= 0.14, macOS >= 13.0 |
|-------------------|-----------------------------|

"vz" option makes use of native virtualization support provided by macOS Virtualization.Framework.

An example configuration:
```yaml
# Example to run ubuntu using vmType: vz instead of qemu (Default)
vmType: "vz"
images:
- location: "https://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/releases/22.04/release/ubuntu-22.04-server-cloudimg-amd64.img"
  arch: "x86_64"
- location: "https://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/releases/22.04/release/ubuntu-22.04-server-cloudimg-arm64.img"
  arch: "aarch64"
mounts:
  - location: "~"
mountType: "virtiofs"
```

### Caveats
- "vz" option is only supported on macOS 13 or above
- Virtualization.framework doesn't support running "intel guest on arm" and vice versa

### Known Issues
- "vz" doesn't support `legacyBIOS: true` option, so guest machine like centos-stream, archlinux, oraclelinux will not work
- When running lima using "vz", `${LIMA_HOME}/<INSTANCE>/serial.log` will not contain kernel boot logs
- On Intel Mac, kernel v6.2 (used by Ubuntu 23.04, Fedora 38, etc.) is known to be unbootable on vz.
  kernel v6.3 and later should boot, as long as it is booted via GRUB.
  https://github.com/lima-vm/lima/issues/1577#issuecomment-1565625668

Commit message:

docs/vmtype.md: vz: Linux 6.2 incompatibility is fixed in macOS 13.5
Signed-off-by: Akihiro Suda <akihiro.suda.cz@hco.ntt.co.jp>

docs/vmtype.md, after:

# vmType

Lima supports two ways of running guest machines:
- [qemu](#qemu)
- [vz](#vz)

The vmType can be specified only on creating the instance.
The vmType of existing instances cannot be changed.

## QEMU
"qemu" option makes use of QEMU to run guest operating system. 
This option is used by default if "vmType" is not set.

## VZ
> **Warning**
> "vz" mode is experimental

| :zap: Requirement | Lima >= 0.14, macOS >= 13.0 |
|-------------------|-----------------------------|

"vz" option makes use of native virtualization support provided by macOS Virtualization.Framework.

An example configuration:
```yaml
# Example to run ubuntu using vmType: vz instead of qemu (Default)
vmType: "vz"
images:
- location: "https://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/releases/22.04/release/ubuntu-22.04-server-cloudimg-amd64.img"
  arch: "x86_64"
- location: "https://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/releases/22.04/release/ubuntu-22.04-server-cloudimg-arm64.img"
  arch: "aarch64"
mounts:
  - location: "~"
mountType: "virtiofs"
```

### Caveats
- "vz" option is only supported on macOS 13 or above
- Virtualization.framework doesn't support running "intel guest on arm" and vice versa

### Known Issues
- "vz" doesn't support `legacyBIOS: true` option, so guest machine like centos-stream, archlinux, oraclelinux will not work
- When running lima using "vz", `${LIMA_HOME}/<INSTANCE>/serial.log` will not contain kernel boot logs
- On Intel Mac with macOS prior to 13.5, Linux kernel v6.2 (used by Ubuntu 23.04, Fedora 38, etc.) is known to be unbootable on vz.
  kernel v6.3 and later should boot, as long as it is booted via GRUB.
  https://github.com/lima-vm/lima/issues/1577#issuecomment-1565625668
  The issue is fixed in macOS 13.5.
